.web/docs/guide/builtin-commands.md, before:

# Builtin Commands

Gate includes a few generally useful built-in commands by default.

If you want to add custom commands refer to the [Developers Guide](/developers/).


## Commands

| Built-In Command | Permission            | Description                                                                             |
|------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `/server`        | `gate.command.server` | Players can use the command to view and switch to another server.                       |
| `/glist`         | `gate.command.glist`  | View the number of players on the Gate instance. `/glist all` lists players per server. |


## Permission

By default, the built-in commands don't require the listed permissions.
You can change this behaviour by setting `requireBuiltinCommandPermissions: true` in the config.

It is useful if you only want to allow players with certain permissions to use the commands.

## Disable built-in commands

By default, built-in command are registered on startup.
You can change this behaviour by setting `builtinCommands: false` in the config.

Commit message:

feat: Minecraft 1.20.2-4 support (#258)
* Begin of Minecraft_1_20_2 support development

* reduce repetitive version code

* Add new packets

* update packet ids

* WIP: backend config session handler

* remove testing fields

* Add client brand

* finish backendConfigSessionHandler

* complete session client config handler

* update argument registry

* disable test for ResourcePackRequest

* Fix ServerLoginSuccess in GreaterEqual Minecraft_1_16 to use ReadUUIDIntArray

* Update ResourcePackResponseStatus

* So many changes for 1.20.2+

* Add send command

* Update login and joingame packets

* check switch

* Add auto reading; fix release packet queue

* Reduce extensive error checking (#266)

* preader/pwriter

* Use optimized cipher

* component_holder.go and more

* fix nbt stuff; Successfully joined server!

* fix(JsonToBinaryTag): fix write nbt

* Fix convert string snbt to json

* fix nbtconv test

* remove obsolete ReadComponent func

* Update deps

* Don't test joingame for now

.web/docs/guide/builtin-commands.md, after:

# Builtin Commands

Gate includes a few generally useful built-in commands by default.

If you want to add custom commands refer to the [Developers Guide](/developers/).


## Commands

| Built-In Command | Permission            | Description                                                                             |
|------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `/server`        | `gate.command.server` | Players can use the command to view and switch to another server.                       |
| `/glist`         | `gate.command.glist`  | View the number of players on the Gate instance. `/glist all` lists players per server. |
| `/send`          | `gate.command.send`   | Send one or all players to another server.                                              |

## Permission

By default, the built-in commands don't require the listed permissions.
You can change this behaviour by setting `requireBuiltinCommandPermissions: true` in the config.

It is useful if you only want to allow players with certain permissions to use the commands.

## Disable built-in commands

By default, built-in command are registered on startup.
You can change this behaviour by setting `builtinCommands: false` in the config.
