.web/docs/guide/compatibility.md, before:

# Server Compatibility

Gate is compatible with many Minecraft server implementations.
The expectation is that if the server acts like vanilla, Gate will work,
and we make special provisions for modded setups where we can.

Gate is compatible with Minecraft 1.7.2 through the latest version
and we maintainers update Gate as soon as a new Minecraft version is released.

## Paper <VPBadge>Recommended</VPBadge>

We highly recommend using [Paper](https://papermc.io/) for running a server in most cases.
Gate is tested with older and most recent versions of it.

You can use `modern` forwarding (like Velocity does) if you run Paper
1.13.2 or higher. If you use Paper 1.12.2 or lower, you must use `legacy` BungeeCord-style forwarding.

## Spigot

Spigot is not well-tested with Gate.
However, it is based on vanilla and as it is the base for Paper, it is relatively well-supported.

Spigot does not support Gate/Velocity modern forwarding, but does support legacy BungeeCord forwarding.

## Forks of Spigot/Paper

Forks of Spigot are not well-tested with Gate, though they may work perfectly fine.

## Proxy-behind-proxy setups

These setups are only supported with [Lite mode](lite#proxy-behind-proxy) or [Connect enabled](connect)!

You are best advised to avoid other kinds of setups, as they can cause lots of issues.
Most proxy-behind-proxy setups are either illogical in the first place or can be handled more
gracefully by purpose-built solutions like [Connect](https://connect.minekube.com/) or [Lite mode](lite).

Commit message:

feat: Add BungeeGuard Compatible mode (#390)
* Add bungeeguard fowarding mode

* allow "bungeeguard" as a fowarding mode in the config

* make sure bungeeguard uses the legacy fowarding mode

* fix typo; TODO createBungeeGuardForwardingAddress method

* Bungeeguard Support (#382)

* Fixed Bungeeguard Support

- Fixed incomplete bungeeguard support
- Added bungeeguard options to config.yml

* Updated compatibility docs

- Added bungeeguard as a forwarding option

---------

Co-authored-by: * <61941069+Git-Fal7@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: NixNux123 <95556010+NixNux123@users.noreply.github.com>

.web/docs/guide/compatibility.md, after:

# Server Compatibility

Gate is compatible with many Minecraft server implementations.
The expectation is that if the server acts like vanilla, Gate will work,
and we make special provisions for modded setups where we can.

Gate is compatible with Minecraft 1.7.2 through the latest version
and we maintainers update Gate as soon as a new Minecraft version is released.

## Paper <VPBadge>Recommended</VPBadge>

We highly recommend using [Paper](https://papermc.io/) for running a server in most cases.
Gate is tested with older and most recent versions of it.

You can use `modern` forwarding (like Velocity does) if you run Paper
1.13.2 or higher. If you use Paper 1.12.2 or lower, you can use `legacy` BungeeCord-style forwarding or the more secure `bungeeguard` [Bungeeguard](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/bungeeguard.79601/) forwarding.

## Spigot

Spigot is not well-tested with Gate.
However, it is based on vanilla and as it is the base for Paper, it is relatively well-supported.

Spigot does not support Gate/Velocity modern forwarding, but does support legacy BungeeCord forwarding and the more secure Bungeeguard forwarding when using the [Bungeeguard](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/bungeeguard.79601/) plugin.

## Forks of Spigot/Paper

Forks of Spigot are not well-tested with Gate, though they may work perfectly fine.

## Proxy-behind-proxy setups

These setups are only supported with [Lite mode](lite#proxy-behind-proxy) or [Connect enabled](connect)!

You are best advised to avoid other kinds of setups, as they can cause lots of issues.
Most proxy-behind-proxy setups are either illogical in the first place or can be handled more
gracefully by purpose-built solutions like [Connect](https://connect.minekube.com/) or [Lite mode](lite).
