.web/docs/guide/quick-start.md, before:

---
title: 'Gate Minecraft Proxy Quick Start Guide'
description: 'Get started with Gate Minecraft proxy in minutes. Step-by-step installation, configuration, and setup guide for BungeeCord/Velocity replacement with Bedrock support.'

head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: 'Get started with Gate Minecraft proxy in minutes. Step-by-step installation, configuration, and setup guide for BungeeCord/Velocity replacement with Bedrock support.'
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: 'gate quick start, minecraft proxy installation, gate setup guide, minecraft server proxy tutorial, bungeecord alternative setup, velocity replacement guide, minecraft network setup'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:title'
      content: 'Gate Minecraft Proxy Quick Start - Installation & Setup Guide'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:description'
      content: 'Quick start guide for Gate Minecraft proxy. Install, configure, and run your own BungeeCord/Velocity replacement with Bedrock cross-play in minutes.'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:image'
      content: 'https://gate.minekube.com/og-image.png'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:url'
      content: 'https://gate.minekube.com/guide/quick-start'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:type'
      content: 'article'
  - - meta
    - name: 'twitter:card'
      content: 'summary_large_image'
  - - meta
    - name: 'twitter:title'
      content: 'Gate Minecraft Proxy Quick Start - Installation & Setup Guide'
  - - meta
    - name: 'twitter:description'
      content: 'Quick start guide for Gate Minecraft proxy. Install, configure, and run your own BungeeCord/Velocity replacement with Bedrock cross-play in minutes.'
  - - meta
    - name: 'twitter:image'
      content: 'https://gate.minekube.com/og-image.png'
  - - link
    - rel: canonical
      href: 'https://gate.minekube.com/guide/quick-start'
---

# Quick Start

_This page quickly explains how to run Gate as a Minecraft proxy for your servers.
If you want to extend Gate with custom functionality, see the [Developers](/developers/) section._

---

<!--@include: install/index.md -->

## Running Gate

After installing the binary, you can run the Gate Minecraft proxy using the `gate` command.

```sh console
$ gate
INFO	gate/root.go:93	logging verbosity	{"verbosity": 0}
INFO	gate/root.go:94	using config file	{"config": ""}
INFO	config	gate/gate.go:205	config validation warn	{"warn": "java: No backend servers configured."}
INFO	java	proxy/proxy.go:299	Using favicon from data uri	{"length": 3086}
INFO	java	proxy/proxy.go:472	listening for connections	{"addr": "0.0.0.0:25565"}
```

::: tip Key Features

Gate supports:

- **[Lite mode](lite)** - Lightweight reverse proxy for simple setups
- **[Bedrock support](bedrock)** - Cross-play with mobile, console, and Windows players

:::

## Configuring Backend Servers

Gate connects to your Minecraft servers and forwards client connections to them.

You can do this by creating and editing the `config.yml` file.

```yaml config.yml
<!--@include: ../../../config-simple.yml -->
```

The `servers` section defines the addresses of your Minecraft servers.
and the `try` section defines the order in which players fallback to connect to.

There are many more options to configure, see [Configuration](/guide/config/) for more!

## Next Steps

<div class="next-steps">
  <a href="/guide/bedrock" class="next-card" style="text-decoration: none;">
    🎮 Bedrock Support
    <span>Enable cross-play with mobile and console players</span>
  </a>
  <a href="/guide/lite" class="next-card" style="text-decoration: none;">
    ⚡ Lite Mode
    <span>Lightweight reverse proxy setup</span>
  </a>
  <a href="/guide/config/" class="next-card" style="text-decoration: none;">
    📖 Configuration Guide
    <span>Learn about all configuration options</span>
  </a>
  <a href="/developers/" class="next-card" style="text-decoration: none;">
    💻 Developer Guide
    <span>Extend Gate with custom code</span>
  </a>
</div>

<style>
.quick-start-cards {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(250px, 1fr));
  gap: 20px;
  margin: 24px 0;
}

.quick-card {
  background-color: var(--vp-c-bg-soft);
  border: 1px solid var(--vp-c-divider);
  border-radius: 8px;
  padding: 20px;
}

.quick-card h3 {
  margin-top: 0;
  color: var(--vp-c-brand-1);
}

.next-steps {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(200px, 1fr));
  gap: 16px;
  margin-top: 24px;
}

.next-card {
  padding: 16px;
  background-color: var(--vp-c-bg-soft);
  border: 1px solid var(--vp-c-divider);
  border-radius: 8px;
  text-decoration: none;
  color: var(--vp-c-brand-1);
  font-weight: 500;
  transition: all 0.3s;
}

.next-card:hover {
  transform: translateY(-2px);
  border-color: var(--vp-c-brand-1);
  box-shadow: 0 2px 12px 0 var(--vp-c-divider);
}

.next-card span {
  display: block;
  color: var(--vp-c-text-2);
  font-size: 0.9em;
  font-weight: 400;
  margin-top: 4px;
}
</style>

Commit message:

feat: add config subcommand to generate default config files
- Add 'gate config' subcommand to output default configuration templates
- Support multiple config types: full, minimal, simple, lite, bedrock
- Add --write flag to write directly to config.yml
- Embed config files using go:embed for distribution
- Add sync-configs Makefile target and go:generate directives
- Update documentation with config generation examples and templates

.web/docs/guide/quick-start.md, after:

---
title: 'Gate Minecraft Proxy Quick Start Guide'
description: 'Get started with Gate Minecraft proxy in minutes. Step-by-step installation, configuration, and setup guide for BungeeCord/Velocity replacement with Bedrock support.'

head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: 'Get started with Gate Minecraft proxy in minutes. Step-by-step installation, configuration, and setup guide for BungeeCord/Velocity replacement with Bedrock support.'
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: 'gate quick start, minecraft proxy installation, gate setup guide, minecraft server proxy tutorial, bungeecord alternative setup, velocity replacement guide, minecraft network setup'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:title'
      content: 'Gate Minecraft Proxy Quick Start - Installation & Setup Guide'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:description'
      content: 'Quick start guide for Gate Minecraft proxy. Install, configure, and run your own BungeeCord/Velocity replacement with Bedrock cross-play in minutes.'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:image'
      content: 'https://gate.minekube.com/og-image.png'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:url'
      content: 'https://gate.minekube.com/guide/quick-start'
  - - meta
    - property: 'og:type'
      content: 'article'
  - - meta
    - name: 'twitter:card'
      content: 'summary_large_image'
  - - meta
    - name: 'twitter:title'
      content: 'Gate Minecraft Proxy Quick Start - Installation & Setup Guide'
  - - meta
    - name: 'twitter:description'
      content: 'Quick start guide for Gate Minecraft proxy. Install, configure, and run your own BungeeCord/Velocity replacement with Bedrock cross-play in minutes.'
  - - meta
    - name: 'twitter:image'
      content: 'https://gate.minekube.com/og-image.png'
  - - link
    - rel: canonical
      href: 'https://gate.minekube.com/guide/quick-start'
---

# Quick Start

_This page quickly explains how to run Gate as a Minecraft proxy for your servers.
If you want to extend Gate with custom functionality, see the [Developers](/developers/) section._

---

<!--@include: install/index.md -->

## Running Gate

After installing the binary, you can run the Gate Minecraft proxy using the `gate` command.

```sh console
$ gate
INFO	gate/root.go:93	logging verbosity	{"verbosity": 0}
INFO	gate/root.go:94	using config file	{"config": ""}
INFO	config	gate/gate.go:205	config validation warn	{"warn": "java: No backend servers configured."}
INFO	java	proxy/proxy.go:299	Using favicon from data uri	{"length": 3086}
INFO	java	proxy/proxy.go:472	listening for connections	{"addr": "0.0.0.0:25565"}
```

::: tip Key Features

Gate supports:

- **[Lite mode](lite)** - Lightweight reverse proxy for simple setups
- **[Bedrock support](bedrock)** - Cross-play with mobile, console, and Windows players

:::

## Configuring Backend Servers

Gate connects to your Minecraft servers and forwards client connections to them.

You can generate a default configuration file using:

```sh console
$ gate config > config.yml
```

Then edit the `config.yml` file to configure your backend servers:

```yaml config.yml
<!--@include: ../../../config-simple.yml -->
```

The `servers` section defines the addresses of your Minecraft servers.
and the `try` section defines the order in which players fallback to connect to.

There are many more options to configure, see [Configuration](/guide/config/) for more!

## Next Steps

<div class="next-steps">
  <a href="/guide/bedrock" class="next-card" style="text-decoration: none;">
    🎮 Bedrock Support
    <span>Enable cross-play with mobile and console players</span>
  </a>
  <a href="/guide/lite" class="next-card" style="text-decoration: none;">
    ⚡ Lite Mode
    <span>Lightweight reverse proxy setup</span>
  </a>
  <a href="/guide/config/" class="next-card" style="text-decoration: none;">
    📖 Configuration Guide
    <span>Learn about all configuration options</span>
  </a>
  <a href="/developers/" class="next-card" style="text-decoration: none;">
    💻 Developer Guide
    <span>Extend Gate with custom code</span>
  </a>
</div>

<style>
.quick-start-cards {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(250px, 1fr));
  gap: 20px;
  margin: 24px 0;
}

.quick-card {
  background-color: var(--vp-c-bg-soft);
  border: 1px solid var(--vp-c-divider);
  border-radius: 8px;
  padding: 20px;
}

.quick-card h3 {
  margin-top: 0;
  color: var(--vp-c-brand-1);
}

.next-steps {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(200px, 1fr));
  gap: 16px;
  margin-top: 24px;
}

.next-card {
  padding: 16px;
  background-color: var(--vp-c-bg-soft);
  border: 1px solid var(--vp-c-divider);
  border-radius: 8px;
  text-decoration: none;
  color: var(--vp-c-brand-1);
  font-weight: 500;
  transition: all 0.3s;
}

.next-card:hover {
  transform: translateY(-2px);
  border-color: var(--vp-c-brand-1);
  box-shadow: 0 2px 12px 0 var(--vp-c-divider);
}

.next-card span {
  display: block;
  color: var(--vp-c-text-2);
  font-size: 0.9em;
  font-weight: 400;
  margin-top: 4px;
}
</style>
