.web/docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: home

title: Gate
titleTemplate: Next Generation Minecraft Proxy

hero:
  name: Gate
  text: The Lightweight Minecraft Proxy
  tagline: Replacing BungeeCord/Velocity • Optimized for efficiency, low memory usage 10MB • Developed in Go • Embrace the cloud native era!
  image:
    src: /minekube-logo.png
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Quick Start
      link: /guide/quick-start
    - theme: alt
      text: Lite mode
      link: /guide/lite
    - theme: alt
      text: Extensions
      link: /extensions
    - theme: alt
      text: Discord
      link: https://minekube.com/discord
    - theme: alt
      text: GitHub
      link: https://github.com/minekube/gate

features:
  - icon: 📦
    title: Fewer moving parts
    details: Run Gate's tiny executable practically anywhere or in a container - No Java runtime needed!
    link: /guide/install/
    linkText: Install
  - icon: 🚀
    title: Developer Friendly
    details:
      Gate is written in Go, a modern programming language that is easy to learn and
      has a great ecosystem of tools and libraries.
    link: /developers/
    linkText: Developers & Starter Template
  - icon: 🌐
    title: Supports Connect out of the box
    details: Get your public or local host proxy network in front of players with organic traffic.
    link: /guide/connect
    linkText: Enable Connect
  - icon: ✨️
    title: Multi-Version Support
    details:
      Gate supports Minecraft server versions 1.8 to latest and is constantly updated to support
      new versions.
    link: /guide/compatibility
    linkText: Compatibility
  - icon: 🪄
    title: Lite Mode
    details: Gate Lite is an ultra-thin lightweight Minecraft reverse proxy for host based connection routing.
    link: /guide/lite
    linkText: Lite Mode
  - icon: ⚡️
    title: High Performance
    details: Gate is designed to be fast and efficient. A proxy that can handle thousands of players with ease.
    link: /guide/why
    linkText: Why Gate?
---

Commit message:

feat: Gate HTTP API (#423)
* feat: Initial Gate API

* add gitignore

* wip: initial docs

* internal: use local buf code gen

* feat: add rpc ListServers

* docs: typescript runtimes

* docs: remove wrong sample

* api false by default

* fix cmd

* docs: different install clis

* docs improve

* docs(api): add Go

* docs(api): add java

* docs(api): add kotllin

* docs(api): add python

* docs(api): add rust

* docs enhancements

* refine docs overall and add install scripts

* fix docs

* doc add install commands to readme

* feat: Gate API - Addition/Removal/Updating of Servers (#427)

* feat: Addition/Removal of servers

* feat: updateservers instead of add/remove

you can now update servers in bulk

* feat: remove servers using only name or address

can remove servers now using name or address or by having both

* feat: updateplayer func to kick/send player

can send/kick player(s) now using the same type of operation method like servers, you can provide reason for kicking.

* refactor: favour idiomatic api

---------

Co-authored-by: robinbraemer <robin.braemer@web.de>

* enhance proto

* buf generate

* docs: simplify What the Installation Scripts Do

* docs: add proto definition

* docs: add generated definition

* web: add landing page content

* background alternating

* fix(ui): mobile responsiveness

* fix icons on mobile

* rename

* refactor: fix mess up inner sections

---------

Co-authored-by: Dylan <dylan@dylanh.dev>

.web/docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: home

title: Gate
titleTemplate: Next Generation Minecraft Proxy

hero:
  name: Gate
  text: The Lightweight Minecraft Proxy
  tagline: Replacing BungeeCord/Velocity • Optimized for efficiency, low memory usage 10MB • Developed in Go • Embrace the cloud native era!
  image:
    src: /minekube-logo.png
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Quick Start
      link: /guide/quick-start
    - theme: alt
      text: Lite mode
      link: /guide/lite
    - theme: alt
      text: Extensions
      link: /extensions
    - theme: alt
      text: Discord
      link: https://minekube.com/discord
    - theme: alt
      text: GitHub
      link: https://github.com/minekube/gate

features:
  - icon: 📦
    title: Fewer moving parts
    details: Run Gate's tiny executable practically anywhere or in a container - No Java runtime needed!
    link: /guide/install/
    linkText: Install
  - icon: 🚀
    title: Developer Friendly
    details: Build integrations in TypeScript, Python, Go, Rust, Kotlin, or Java using our modern API with official SDKs.
    link: /developers/
    linkText: Developers & Starter Template
  - icon: 🌐
    title: Supports Connect out of the box
    details: Get your public or local host proxy network in front of players with organic traffic.
    link: /guide/connect
    linkText: Enable Connect
  - icon: ✨️
    title: Multi-Version Support
    details:
      Gate supports Minecraft server versions 1.8 to latest and is constantly updated to support
      new versions.
    link: /guide/compatibility
    linkText: Compatibility
  - icon: 🪄
    title: Lite Mode
    details: Gate Lite is an ultra-thin lightweight Minecraft reverse proxy for host based connection routing.
    link: /guide/lite
    linkText: Lite Mode
  - icon: ⚡️
    title: High Performance
    details: Gate is designed to be fast and efficient. A proxy that can handle thousands of players with ease.
    link: /guide/why
    linkText: Why Gate?
---
