.web/docs/guide/install/docker.md, before:

# Running Gate in Docker

_Gate ships in packaged Docker images that you can use to run Gate containers or base your own images on. You can also
run it in [Kubernetes](kubernetes)._

## Version Tags

You can use specific version tags instead of the latest. Every commit to the `main` branch is built and pushed to
the `latest` tag as well as the commit's short SHA
like [`6d3671c`](https://github.com/minekube/gate/pkgs/container/gate/50952923?tag=6d3671c).

## `docker run`

```sh console
docker run -it --rm ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
```

This command will pull and run the latest Gate image.

- `-it` - Run interactively and allocate a pseudo-TTY.
    - Alternatively using `-d` would run in detached mode.
- `--rm` - Removes the container after it exits.

### Mounting a config file

A complete config is located in repo [config.yml](https://github.com/minekube/gate/blob/master/config.yml).

```sh console
docker run -it --rm \
  -v PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml \
  ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
```

This command will pull and run the latest Gate image.

- `-v PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml` - Mounts the config file from the host system into the container.

### Mounting a config file and Minekube Connect token

#### Using an environment variable for the token

```sh{3} console
docker run -it --rm \
  -v PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml \
  -e CONNECT_TOKEN=YOUR-TOKEN \
  ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
```

**Note:** The `CONNECT_TOKEN` environment variable takes precedence over the `connect.json` file, so if both are provided, the token from the environment variable will be used instead.

#### Using a volume for the token

```sh{3} console
docker run -it --rm \
  -v PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml \
  -v PATH-TO-CONFIG/connect.json:/connect.json \
  ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
```

A [Minekube Connect](https://connect.minekube.com/) token json file can be automatically generated by running Gate with `connect.enable: true` in the config. 

```json connect.json
{"token":"YOUR-TOKEN"}
```

## `docker-compose.yaml`

Copy the following snippet into a `docker-compose.yaml` file and run `docker-compose up`.

```yaml docker-compose.yaml
version: "3.9"

services:
  gate:
    image: ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
    container_name: gate
    restart: unless-stopped
    network_mode: host
    volumes:
    - PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml
    #- PATH-TO-TOKEN/connect.json:/connect.json
```

Running `docker-compose down` will stop and remove the containers.

We provide an example that configures Gate with two Minecraft servers.

```sh console
git clone https://github.com/minekube/gate.git
cd gate/.examples/docker-compose
docker-compose up
```

The files of the two servers are located in the `serverdata*` directories.
You can join at `localhost:25565` and use `/server` to switch between the servers.


## Troubleshooting

If you see the following error:

```sh console
Unable to find image 'ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest' locally
docker: Error response from daemon: Head "https://ghcr.io/v2/minekube/gate/manifests/latest": denied: denied.
See 'docker run --help'.
```

do

```sh console
docker logout ghcr.io
```

It may be because you are logged in to the GitHub Container Registry with an outdated personal access token (PAT).
Simply logout or login with a new token. It's worse to provide a bad token than not to provide a token at all. GitHub
sets tokens to expire after 30 days by default.

Commit message:

docs: Add SEO-optimized frontmatter to 49+ documentation pages
✨ Enhanced SEO with title and description frontmatter:
• 24 key pages with custom SEO titles and descriptions
• 25+ additional pages with cleaned frontmatter
• Removed problematic head: arrays incompatible with VitePress
• Fixed YAML parsing issues and blank lines

🎯 SEO Benefits:
• Optimized page titles for search engines
• Descriptive meta descriptions for better SERP snippets
• Improved discoverability for Gate documentation
• Maintained full content while adding metadata

⚡ Technical improvements:
• VitePress-compatible YAML frontmatter structure
• Eliminated parsing errors that broke builds
• Clean, consistent metadata across all docs
• Preserved all existing content and functionality

This provides the core SEO benefits while ensuring build stability.

.web/docs/guide/install/docker.md, after:

---
title: 'Install Gate with Docker - Container Setup Guide'
description: 'Run Gate Minecraft proxy in Docker containers. Complete guide with docker-compose, port configuration, and volume mounting.'
---

# Running Gate in Docker

_Gate ships in packaged Docker images that you can use to run Gate containers or base your own images on. You can also
run it in [Kubernetes](kubernetes)._

## Version Tags

You can use specific version tags instead of the latest. Every commit to the `main` branch is built and pushed to
the `latest` tag as well as the commit's short SHA
like [`6d3671c`](https://github.com/minekube/gate/pkgs/container/gate/50952923?tag=6d3671c).

## `docker run`

```sh console
docker run -it --rm ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
```

This command will pull and run the latest Gate image.

- `-it` - Run interactively and allocate a pseudo-TTY.
  - Alternatively using `-d` would run in detached mode.
- `--rm` - Removes the container after it exits.

### Mounting a config file

A complete config is located in repo [config.yml](https://github.com/minekube/gate/blob/master/config.yml).

```sh console
docker run -it --rm \
  -v PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml \
  ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
```

This command will pull and run the latest Gate image.

- `-v PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml` - Mounts the config file from the host system into the container.

### Mounting a config file and Minekube Connect token

#### Using an environment variable for the token

```sh{3} console
docker run -it --rm \
  -v PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml \
  -e CONNECT_TOKEN=YOUR-TOKEN \
  ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
```

**Note:** The `CONNECT_TOKEN` environment variable takes precedence over the `connect.json` file, so if both are provided, the token from the environment variable will be used instead.

#### Using a volume for the token

```sh{3} console
docker run -it --rm \
  -v PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml \
  -v PATH-TO-CONFIG/connect.json:/connect.json \
  ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
```

A [Minekube Connect](https://connect.minekube.com/) token json file can be automatically generated by running Gate with `connect.enable: true` in the config.

```json connect.json
{ "token": "YOUR-TOKEN" }
```

## `docker-compose.yaml`

Copy the following snippet into a `docker-compose.yaml` file and run `docker-compose up`.

```yaml docker-compose.yaml
version: '3.9'

services:
  gate:
    image: ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest
    container_name: gate
    restart: unless-stopped
    network_mode: host
    volumes:
      - PATH-TO-CONFIG/config.yml:/config.yml
    #- PATH-TO-TOKEN/connect.json:/connect.json
```

Running `docker-compose down` will stop and remove the containers.

We provide an example that configures Gate with two Minecraft servers.

```sh console
git clone https://github.com/minekube/gate.git
cd gate/.examples/docker-compose
docker-compose up
```

The files of the two servers are located in the `serverdata*` directories.
You can join at `localhost:25565` and use `/server` to switch between the servers.

## Troubleshooting

If you see the following error:

```sh console
Unable to find image 'ghcr.io/minekube/gate:latest' locally
docker: Error response from daemon: Head "https://ghcr.io/v2/minekube/gate/manifests/latest": denied: denied.
See 'docker run --help'.
```

do

```sh console
docker logout ghcr.io
```

It may be because you are logged in to the GitHub Container Registry with an outdated personal access token (PAT).
Simply logout or login with a new token. It's worse to provide a bad token than not to provide a token at all. GitHub
sets tokens to expire after 30 days by default.
