.web/docs/guide/otel/index.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry

Gate uses OpenTelemetry for observability, leveraging the [otel-config-go](https://github.com/honeycombio/otel-config-go) library for configuration. This provides a simple way to configure tracing and metrics collection through environment variables.

# Start Generation Here

![OpenTelemetry Architecture](https://mermaid.ink/svg/pako:eNp9kl1vgjAUhv9Kc65cgoYvGXCxRNF4o9FNsouJFx1UbEZbUiCZGv_7CrhJ1KxX7XPe856e9pwgFgkBH1KJ8z2av0UcqVVUny2IYJTnGY1xSQWPoI3Wa7SZ4ZJsW0B4EvG7zJBkhJFSHlAgsozEtxbjzTIn_E4l5L-uC8Gp0lCeojGOv5So6JoGmwhmEu8wx2hBGZWot1DuNC6eIthedZOOLiQsF6gXShyTjuxx_XdaVDijx7sXmXYcl-v1I5sR6vfRMpyv0LXrfv8FjdvwuA5fbtvwoMPb2zV40uKgxisp2Ou8wdMWT27UU9CAEckwTdQ_n2pRBOVelY_AV9uMpvuybuSshLgqxfrAY_BLWRENpKjSPfg7nBXqVOWJ-vQJxeox2B_NMf8Qgv2mpLIudElXzRMZiIqX4FtOowX_BN_ge87AdoaGZViOZ1qO_azBAXzbGHiOaerPumXZpqsbw7MGx8ZdH7i6Z1i27jiGbruupwFJ6lFYtBPcDPL5B1Gd2L4)

## Configuration

Gate's OpenTelemetry implementation can be configured using the following environment variables:

| Environment Variable        | Required | Default                | Description                           |
| --------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| OTEL_SERVICE_NAME           | No       | `gate`                 | Name of your service                  |
| OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION        | No       | -                      | Version of your service               |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT | No       | `localhost:4317`       | Endpoint for OTLP export              |
| OTEL_LOG_LEVEL              | No       | `info`                 | Logging level                         |
| OTEL_PROPAGATORS            | No       | `tracecontext,baggage` | Configured propagators                |
| OTEL_METRICS_ENABLED        | No       | `true`                 | Enable metrics collection             |
| OTEL_TRACES_ENABLED         | No       | `true`                 | Enable trace collection               |
| OTEL_METRICS_SERVER_ENABLED | No       | `false`                | Enable Prometheus metrics server      |
| OTEL_METRICS_SERVER_PATH    | No       | `/metrics`             | Path for Prometheus metrics endpoint  |
| OTEL_METRICS_SERVER_ADDR    | No       | `:9464`                | Address for Prometheus metrics server |

Additional environment variables for exporters:

| Environment Variable                | Required | Default          | Description                          |
| ----------------------------------- | -------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS          | No       | `{}`             | Global headers for OTLP exporter     |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_HEADERS   | No       | `{}`             | Headers specific to trace exporter   |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_HEADERS  | No       | `{}`             | Headers specific to metrics exporter |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL         | No       | `grpc`           | Protocol for OTLP export (grpc/http) |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_ENDPOINT  | No       | `localhost:4317` | Endpoint for trace export            |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_INSECURE  | No       | `false`          | Allow insecure trace connections     |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT | No       | `localhost:4317` | Endpoint for metrics export          |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_INSECURE | No       | `false`          | Allow insecure metrics connections   |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_PERIOD   | No       | `30s`            | Metrics reporting interval           |
| OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES            | No       | -                | Additional resource attributes       |

## Example Configuration

Here's an example configuration for sending telemetry to a local OpenTelemetry collector:

```env
OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="my-gate-service"
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT="localhost:4317"
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL="grpc"
OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production"
```

## Observability Solutions

You can use various solutions to collect and visualize OpenTelemetry data. Here are some popular options:

### Cloud Solutions

::: info <VPBadge>Our recommendations</VPBadge>

- [Grafana Cloud](/guide/otel/grafana-cloud/) - Fully managed observability platform with support for metrics, logs, and traces
- [Honeycomb](/guide/otel/honeycomb/) - Observability platform designed for debugging complex systems

:::

- [New Relic](https://newrelic.com/) - Full-stack observability platform with APM capabilities
- [Datadog](https://www.datadog.com/) - Cloud monitoring and analytics platform
- [Azure Monitor](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/monitor/) - Microsoft's cloud-native monitoring solution
- [AWS X-Ray](https://aws.amazon.com/xray/) - Distributed tracing system for AWS applications
- [Google Cloud Operations Suite](https://cloud.google.com/operations) - Formerly Stackdriver, for monitoring, logging, and diagnostics

### Self-Hosted Solutions

#### Tracing

- [Tempo](https://grafana.com/oss/tempo/) - Grafana Tempo is a high-scale distributed tracing backend
- [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/) - Open source, end-to-end distributed tracing

#### Metrics

- [Mimir](https://grafana.com/oss/mimir/) - Grafana Mimir is a highly scalable Prometheus solution

#### Visualization

- [Grafana](https://grafana.com/oss/grafana/) - The open and composable observability and data visualization platform

## Best Practices

1. **Service Name**: Always set a meaningful `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` that clearly identifies your service.

   ```env
   # Good examples:
   OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="gate-proxy-eu"
   OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="gate-proxy-lobby"

   # Bad examples:
   OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="proxy"  # too generic
   OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="gate"   # not specific enough
   ```

2. **Service Version**: Set `OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION` to track your application version:

   ```env
   # Semantic versioning
   OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION="v1.2.3"

   # Git commit hash
   OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION="git-8f45d91"

   # Build number
   OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION="build-1234"
   ```

3. **Resource Attributes**: Use `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` to add important context like environment, region, or deployment info.

   ```env
   # Single attribute
   OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production"

   # Multiple attributes
   OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production,cloud.region=eu-west-1,kubernetes.namespace=game-servers"

   # With detailed context
   OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production,service.instance.id=gate-1,cloud.provider=aws,cloud.region=us-east-1"
   ```

4. **Security**: In production environments:

   ```env
   # Secure endpoint configuration
   OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT="https://otel-collector.example.com:4317"
   OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS="api-key=secret123,tenant=team-a"

   # Ensure TLS is enabled
   OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_INSECURE=false
   ```

## Further Reading

- [OpenTelemetry Documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/)
- [otel-config-go Repository](https://github.com/honeycombio/otel-config-go)
- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/)

Commit message:

feat(docs): update OpenTelemetry self-hosted guide with new metrics and dashboard features
Enhanced the self-hosted OpenTelemetry documentation by adding a sample Grafana dashboard for visualizing metrics from Gate. Updated configuration details for the OpenTelemetry Collector, including new metrics endpoints and improved instructions for setting up Prometheus scraping. Removed outdated Kubernetes configuration examples and added new YAML files for the OpenTelemetry Collector setup. Updated the documentation to reflect changes in metrics collection and visualization capabilities.

.web/docs/guide/otel/index.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry

OpenTelemetry is an observability framework and toolkit designed to facilitate the generation, export, and collection of telemetry data such as traces, metrics, and logs. It is an open-source and vendor-agnostic project, meaning it can be used with a broad variety of observability backends, including open-source tools like Jaeger and Prometheus, as well as commercial offerings. A major goal of OpenTelemetry is to enable easy instrumentation of applications and systems, regardless of the programming language, infrastructure, and runtime environments used. OpenTelemetry itself is not an observability backend; the storage and visualization of telemetry data are intentionally left to other tools. ([Source](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/what-is-opentelemetry/))

::: info
Gate utilizes OpenTelemetry for its observability capabilities. For configuration, Gate leverages the [otel-config-go](https://github.com/honeycombio/otel-config-go) library, which offers a straightforward method to set up tracing and metrics collection via [environment variables](#configuration).
:::

# Start Generation Here

![OpenTelemetry Architecture](https://mermaid.ink/svg/pako:eNp9kl1vgjAUhv9Kc65cgoYvGXCxRNF4o9FNsouJFx1UbEZbUiCZGv_7CrhJ1KxX7XPe856e9pwgFgkBH1KJ8z2av0UcqVVUny2IYJTnGY1xSQWPoI3Wa7SZ4ZJsW0B4EvG7zJBkhJFSHlAgsozEtxbjzTIn_E4l5L-uC8Gp0lCeojGOv5So6JoGmwhmEu8wx2hBGZWot1DuNC6eIthedZOOLiQsF6gXShyTjuxx_XdaVDijx7sXmXYcl-v1I5sR6vfRMpyv0LXrfv8FjdvwuA5fbtvwoMPb2zV40uKgxisp2Ou8wdMWT27UU9CAEckwTdQ_n2pRBOVelY_AV9uMpvuybuSshLgqxfrAY_BLWRENpKjSPfg7nBXqVOWJ-vQJxeox2B_NMf8Qgv2mpLIudElXzRMZiIqX4FtOowX_BN_ge87AdoaGZViOZ1qO_azBAXzbGHiOaerPumXZpqsbw7MGx8ZdH7i6Z1i27jiGbruupwFJ6lFYtBPcDPL5B1Gd2L4)

## Configuration

Gate's OpenTelemetry implementation can be configured using the following [environment variables](https://github.com/honeycombio/otel-config-go/blob/127951890a85db4effad9fbc961d0f09ddd8a818/otelconfig/otelconfig.go#L304):

| Environment Variable        | Required | Default                | Description               |
| --------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| OTEL_SERVICE_NAME           | No       | `gate`                 | Name of your service      |
| OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION        | No       | -                      | Version of your service   |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT | No       | `localhost:4317`       | Endpoint for OTLP export  |
| OTEL_LOG_LEVEL              | No       | `info`                 | Logging level             |
| OTEL_PROPAGATORS            | No       | `tracecontext,baggage` | Configured propagators    |
| OTEL_METRICS_ENABLED        | No       | `true`                 | Enable metrics collection |
| OTEL_TRACES_ENABLED         | No       | `true`                 | Enable trace collection   |

Additional environment variables for exporters:

| Environment Variable                | Required | Default          | Description                          |
| ----------------------------------- | -------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS          | No       | `{}`             | Global headers for OTLP exporter     |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_HEADERS   | No       | `{}`             | Headers specific to trace exporter   |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_HEADERS  | No       | `{}`             | Headers specific to metrics exporter |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_ENDPOINT  | No       | `localhost:4317` | Endpoint for trace export            |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_TRACES_INSECURE  | No       | `false`          | Allow insecure trace connections     |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT | No       | `localhost:4317` | Endpoint for metrics export          |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_INSECURE | No       | `false`          | Allow insecure metrics connections   |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_PERIOD   | No       | `30s`            | Metrics reporting interval           |
| OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL         | No       | `grpc`           | Protocol for OTLP export             |
| OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES            | No       | -                | Additional resource attributes       |

## Example Configuration

Here's an example configuration for sending telemetry to a local OpenTelemetry collector:

```env
OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="my-gate-service"
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT="localhost:4317"
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL="grpc"
OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production"
```

## Observability Solutions

You can use various solutions to collect and visualize OpenTelemetry data. Here are some popular options:

### Detailed Setup Guides

::: info <VPBadge>We provide detailed guides for these three solutions</VPBadge>

- [Grafana Cloud](/guide/otel/grafana-cloud/) - Fully managed observability platform with support for metrics, logs, and traces
- [Honeycomb](/guide/otel/honeycomb/) - Observability platform designed for debugging complex systems
- [Self-hosted](/guide/otel/self-hosted/) - Run your own OpenTelemetry collector and visualize data with Grafana

:::

### Other Cloud Solutions

- [Signoz](https://signoz.io/) - Open source observability platform with support for metrics, logs, and traces
- [New Relic](https://newrelic.com/) - Full-stack observability platform with APM capabilities
- [Datadog](https://www.datadog.com/) - Cloud monitoring and analytics platform
- [Azure Monitor](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/monitor/) - Microsoft's cloud-native monitoring solution
- [AWS X-Ray](https://aws.amazon.com/xray/) - Distributed tracing system for AWS applications
- [Google Cloud Operations Suite](https://cloud.google.com/operations) - Formerly Stackdriver, for monitoring, logging, and diagnostics

### Self-Hosted Solutions

#### Tracing

- [Tempo](https://grafana.com/oss/tempo/) - Grafana Tempo is a high-scale distributed tracing backend
- [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/) - Open source, end-to-end distributed tracing

#### Metrics

- [Mimir](https://grafana.com/oss/mimir/) - Grafana Mimir is a highly scalable Prometheus solution

#### Visualization

- [Grafana](https://grafana.com/oss/grafana/) - The open and composable observability and data visualization platform

## Best Practices

1. **Service Name**: Always set a meaningful `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` that clearly identifies your service.

   ```env
   # Good examples:
   OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="gate-proxy-eu"
   OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="gate-proxy-lobby"

   # Bad examples:
   OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="proxy"  # too generic
   OTEL_SERVICE_NAME="gate"   # not specific enough
   ```

2. **Service Version**: Set `OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION` to track your application version:

   ```env
   # Semantic versioning
   OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION="v1.2.3"

   # Git commit hash
   OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION="git-8f45d91"

   # Build number
   OTEL_SERVICE_VERSION="build-1234"
   ```

3. **Resource Attributes**: Use `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` to add important context like environment, region, or deployment info.

   ```env
   # Single attribute
   OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production"

   # Multiple attributes
   OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production,cloud.region=eu-west-1,kubernetes.namespace=game-servers"

   # With detailed context
   OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES="deployment.environment=production,service.instance.id=gate-1,cloud.provider=aws,cloud.region=us-east-1"
   ```

4. **Security**: In production environments:

   ```env
   # Secure endpoint configuration
   OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT="https://otel-collector.example.com:4317"
   OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS="api-key=secret123,tenant=team-a"
   ```

## Further Reading

- [OpenTelemetry Documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/)
- [otel-config-go Repository](https://github.com/honeycombio/otel-config-go)
- [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/)
