.web/docs/guide/otel/grafana-cloud/index.md, before:

# Grafana Cloud

[Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/products/cloud/) is a fully managed observability platform that supports OpenTelemetry. Follow these steps to set up Gate with Grafana Cloud:

1. **Create a Grafana Cloud Account**

   - Sign up at [Grafana.com](https://grafana.com/auth/sign-up/create-user)
   - Navigate to your organization
   - Create an Access Policy with write permissions at [Access Policies](https://grafana.com/orgs/your-org/access-policies)
   - Generate and save your API token

2. **Configure Stack**

   Navigate to your Grafana Cloud Stack (e.g., grafana.com/orgs/your-org/stacks/xxxxx) and:

   - Click "Send Traces" in the Tempo section to get your traces endpoint
   - Click "Send Metrics" in the Prometheus section to get your metrics endpoint

   ![Stack](./stack.png)

3. **Prepare Your Authentication**

   You'll need to encode your credentials in base64 format. Use one of these methods:

   - Using the command line:

     ```bash
     echo "YOUR_INSTANCE_ID:YOUR_API_TOKEN" | base64
     ```

   - Or visit an online base64 encoder like [base64encode.org](https://www.base64encode.org/)

4. **Configure Gate**

   Export the following environment variables before starting Gate:

   ```bash
   # For traces (Tempo)
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT="https://tempo-prod-XX-prod-XX-XXXXX.grafana.net/tempo"
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS="Authorization=Basic YOUR_BASE64_ENCODED_CREDENTIALS"

   # For metrics (Prometheus)
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL="http/protobuf"
   export OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER="otlp"
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT="https://prometheus-prod-XX-prod-XX-XXXXX.grafana.net/api/prom/push"
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_HEADERS="Authorization=Basic YOUR_BASE64_ENCODED_CREDENTIALS"
   ```

   ::: tip
   For production deployments, consider setting these environment variables in your system configuration or container orchestration platform rather than exporting them manually.
   :::

5. **Start Gate**

   Once the environment variables are set, start Gate normally. It will automatically begin sending telemetry data to Grafana Cloud.

   ```bash
   gate
   ```

   See [Install](/guide/install/) for more information on how to start Gate.

6. **View Your Data**

   Log into your Grafana Cloud account and click on the "Launch" button for Grafana:

   - Navigate to the Tempo service to view your traces
   - Navigate to the Prometheus service to view your metrics

   ![Launch](./launch.png)

   - Go to the "Explore" section and select "Tempo" to in the sources

   ![tempo-source](./tempo-source.png)

   ![Trace](./trace.png)

   - Or select "Prometheus" to view your metrics

Commit message:

docs: Add SEO-optimized frontmatter to 49+ documentation pages
✨ Enhanced SEO with title and description frontmatter:
• 24 key pages with custom SEO titles and descriptions
• 25+ additional pages with cleaned frontmatter
• Removed problematic head: arrays incompatible with VitePress
• Fixed YAML parsing issues and blank lines

🎯 SEO Benefits:
• Optimized page titles for search engines
• Descriptive meta descriptions for better SERP snippets
• Improved discoverability for Gate documentation
• Maintained full content while adding metadata

⚡ Technical improvements:
• VitePress-compatible YAML frontmatter structure
• Eliminated parsing errors that broke builds
• Clean, consistent metadata across all docs
• Preserved all existing content and functionality

This provides the core SEO benefits while ensuring build stability.

.web/docs/guide/otel/grafana-cloud/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Gate with Grafana Cloud Monitoring'
description: 'Monitor Gate Minecraft proxy with Grafana Cloud. Set up dashboards, alerts, and telemetry for comprehensive server monitoring and observability.'
---

# Grafana Cloud

[Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/products/cloud/) is a fully managed observability platform that supports OpenTelemetry. Follow these steps to set up Gate with Grafana Cloud:

1. **Create a Grafana Cloud Account**

   - Sign up at [Grafana.com](https://grafana.com/auth/sign-up/create-user)
   - Navigate to your organization
   - Create an Access Policy with write permissions at [Access Policies](https://grafana.com/orgs/your-org/access-policies)
   - Generate and save your API token

2. **Configure Stack**

   Navigate to your Grafana Cloud Stack (e.g., grafana.com/orgs/your-org/stacks/xxxxx) and:

   - Click "Send Traces" in the Tempo section to get your traces endpoint
   - Click "Send Metrics" in the Prometheus section to get your metrics endpoint

   ![Stack](./stack.png)

3. **Prepare Your Authentication**

   You'll need to encode your credentials in base64 format. Use one of these methods:

   - Using the command line:

     ```bash
     echo "YOUR_INSTANCE_ID:YOUR_API_TOKEN" | base64
     ```

   - Or visit an online base64 encoder like [base64encode.org](https://www.base64encode.org/)

4. **Configure Gate**

   Export the following environment variables before starting Gate:

   ```bash
   # For traces (Tempo)
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT="https://tempo-prod-XX-prod-XX-XXXXX.grafana.net/tempo"
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS="Authorization=Basic YOUR_BASE64_ENCODED_CREDENTIALS"

   # For metrics (Prometheus)
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_PROTOCOL="http/protobuf"
   export OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER="otlp"
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_ENDPOINT="https://prometheus-prod-XX-prod-XX-XXXXX.grafana.net/api/prom/push"
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_METRICS_HEADERS="Authorization=Basic YOUR_BASE64_ENCODED_CREDENTIALS"
   ```

   ::: tip
   For production deployments, consider setting these environment variables in your system configuration or container orchestration platform rather than exporting them manually.
   :::

5. **Start Gate**

   Once the environment variables are set, start Gate normally. It will automatically begin sending telemetry data to Grafana Cloud.

   ```bash
   gate
   ```

   See [Install](/guide/install/) for more information on how to start Gate.

6. **View Your Data**

   Log into your Grafana Cloud account and click on the "Launch" button for Grafana:

   - Navigate to the Tempo service to view your traces
   - Navigate to the Prometheus service to view your metrics

   ![Launch](./launch.png)

   - Go to the "Explore" section and select "Tempo" to in the sources

   ![tempo-source](./tempo-source.png)

   ![Trace](./trace.png)

   - Or select "Prometheus" to view your metrics
